Well, everybody here
calls me Honey, but my name
is Esther Lozano.
And I was born in Fresno, California,
in 1919.
I was baptized in 1935,
and I’ve thoroughly enjoyed
my service to Jehovah.
I became a special pioneer,
and then they called me to Gilead.
I was in the fourth class of Gilead.
That was in 1944.
When I left my assignment as a special,
I didn’t even know how it was to study,
but this was beautiful
how Gilead prepared us
for what was in the future.
Right after Gilead,
we went to Brooklyn Bethel for two years
—Esther Lopez and I—
then I was sent to Mexico.
I came in 1947,
and I’m still here.
So that makes more than 68 years
I’ve been in Mexico.
When I arrived,
there were 7 Bethelites,
and there were 22 missionaries.
We all lived right at the branch;
it was a branch-missionary home.
The progress in Mexico
really is because of the families
being united.
And when you get
the husband and wife together,
then the whole family
comes in the truth.
In 1961, Sister Esther Lozano
preached to our grandparents.
My grandfather first got interested
through the book
From Paradise Lost to Paradise Regained.
When I placed the book
with his wife
and she gave it to him,
he decided that that’s what
he was looking for.
He said,
“Well, when can I be baptized?”
Three visits later,
a study was started
with the entire family.
And the oldest son was only 13.
He said,
“I’m getting baptized too!”
About a year ago, he came
and brought me a letter
and told me how happy he was
that I had gone to their home
and preached to them.
And that was
a happy experience of my life.
Today, in our family,
we are 23 Witnesses
spread over four generations,
and now my brother
and I are serving here
at the Central America branch.
Oh, I forgot to talk about my husband.
He was the branch overseer at that time.
We were there
in the same branch for five years.
We got to know each other,
but I didn’t pay attention to him
because I was always in the service.
And so,
I don’t know when he decided
he wanted to get married
because I know
that wasn’t his goal in life.
And so I wrote Brother Knorr
and asked him if he was surprised
to hear that we
were going to be married.
Then he did write me back
and also said,
well this is what he said in the letter:
‘You’re always jolly
and talkative when I’m around.
‘On the other hand,
‘Brother Lozano is so quiet.
‘I must say,
it is an interesting combination.
‘Both of you together
can serve him and aid
one another in your true worship.’
This is one of my greatest treasures,
having that letter from Brother Knorr.
Then when Rudy died,
I didn’t dwell on that.
I remembered
I made my dedication to Jehovah,
and I know that he would want me
to put that first in my life.
So I did not really suffer
that much about his death
because I became even more involved
in theocratic activities.
I’m in the Correspondence.
But I’m at work
about an hour and a half in the morning
and an hour and a half
in the afternoon
and the rest of the time
I’m studying here in the room.
I’m so pleased that I’m still able
to go to the morning text,
and I have a part in the service.
I have two studies
that I conduct every week.
It’s such a pleasure
to be with people
that have dedicated
their lives to Jehovah.
And that’s what makes me happy
because I know
Jehovah counts them
as his precious sons and daughters.
I don’t know why,
but many of the missionaries
have come up to me and told me
that I’ve been
an encouragement to them,
and really,
they are the ones that encourage me.
It’s because I had
such beautiful examples
to follow in all these years.
And all I can say
is thanks to Jehovah
for this great privilege
of serving him.